Add MIT Scene Parsing Benchmark (#3607)
huggingface/datasets: datasets/scene_parse_150/README.md

---
annotations_creators:
- crowdsourced
- expert-generated
language_creators:

> - found

Reviewer: well there's no language haha, once the YAML schema is updated we can probably remove that

Author: I use this tag to indicate from where the image data comes. Maybe we can rename it to `data_creators` later?

- [Additional Information](#additional-information)
  - [Dataset Curators](#dataset-curators)
  - [Licensing Information](#licensing-information)
  - [Citation Information](#citation-information)
  - [Contributions](#contributions)

## Dataset Description

- **Homepage:** [MIT Scene Parsing Benchmark homepage](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/pass/)
- **Repository:** [Scene Parsing repository (Caffe/Torch7)](https://github.com/CSAILVision/sceneparsing),[Scene Parsing repository (PyTorch)](https://github.com/CSAILVision/semantic-segmentation-pytorch) and [Instance Segmentation repository](https://github.com/CSAILVision/placeschallenge/tree/master/instancesegmentation)
- **Paper:** [Scene Parsing through ADE20K Dataset.](http://people.csail.mit.edu/bzhou/publication/scene-parse-camera-ready.pdf) and [Semantic Understanding of Scenes through ADE20K Datase](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05442)
- **Leaderboard:** [MIT Scene Parsing Benchmark leaderboard](http://sceneparsing.csail.mit.edu/#:~:text=twice%20per%20week.-,leaderboard,-Organizers)
- **Point of Contact:** [Bolei Zhou](mailto:bzhou@ie.cuhk.edu.hk)

### Dataset Summary

> Scene parsing is to segment and parse an image into different image regions associated with semantic categories, such as sky, road, person, and bed. MIT Scene Parsing Benchmark (SceneParse150) provides a standard training and evaluation platform for the algorithms of scene parsing. The data for this benchmark comes from ADE20K Dataset which contains more than 20K scene-centric images exhaustively annotated with objects and object parts. Specifically, the benchmark is divided into 20K images for training, 2K images for validation, and another batch of held-out images for testing. There are totally 150 semantic categories included for evaluation, which include stuffs like sky, road, grass, and discrete objects like person, car, bed. Note that there are non-uniform distribution of objects occuring in the images, mimicking a more natural object occurrence in daily scene.

Reviewer: (nits)
```suggestion
Scene parsing is the task of segmenting and parsing an image into different image regions associated with semantic categories, such as sky, road, person, and bed. MIT Scene Parsing Benchmark (SceneParse150) provides a standard training and evaluation platform for the algorithms of scene parsing. The data for this benchmark comes from ADE20K Dataset which contains more than 20K scene-centric images exhaustively annotated with objects and object parts. Specifically, the benchmark is divided into 20K images for training, 2K images for validation, and another batch of held-out images for testing. There are in total 150 semantic categories included for evaluation, which include e.g. sky, road, grass, and discrete objects like person, car, bed. Note that there are non-uniform distribution of objects occuring in the images, mimicking a more natural object occurrence in daily scene.
```

### Data Instances

A data point comprises an image and its annotation mask, which is `None` in the testing set. The `scene_parsing` configuration has an additional `scene_category` field.

#### `scene_parsing`

```
{
  'image': <PIL.JpegImagePlugin.JpegImageFile image mode=RGB size=683x512 at 0x1FF32A3EDA0>,
  'annotation': <PIL.PngImagePlugin.PngImageFile image mode=L size=683x512 at 0x1FF32E5B978>,
  'scene_category': 0
}
```

#### `instance_segmentation`

```
{
  'image': <PIL.JpegImagePlugin.JpegImageFile image mode=RGB size=256x256 at 0x20B51B5C400>,
  'annotation': <PIL.PngImagePlugin.PngImageFile image mode=RGB size=256x256 at 0x20B57051B38>
}
```

### Data Fields

#### `scene_parsing`

- `image`: A `PIL.Image.Image` object containing the image. Note that when accessing the image column: `dataset[0]["image"]` the image file is automatically decoded. Decoding of a large number of image files might take a significant amount of time. Thus it is important to first query the sample index before the `"image"` column, *i.e.* `dataset[0]["image"]` should **always** be preferred over `dataset["image"][0]`.
- `annotation`: A `PIL.Image.Image` object containing the annotation mask.

> - `scene_category`: A scene category for the image.

Reviewer: Maybe we could have an example of category ?
